program-outline.md, before:

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Synopsis

The Carpentries want to offer opportunities to help community members learn and grow. Accordingly, mentoring is one professional development opportunity we offer our growing instructor pool. 

The Mentoring Program supports instructors in a variety of ways. Whether you are a new instructor preparing to teach your first workshop, a seasoned instructor hoping to launch workshops in a new community, or an instructor excited about getting involved with lesson development and maintenance, mentoring will help you gain the confidence, technical skills, and teaching skills you need to reach your goal. 

Mentors will guide small groups of no more than five mentees towards a particular outcome the course of the mentoring program. Outcomes might be anything from teaching a specific lesson (i.e. Version Control with Git) to making a meaningful contribution to one of our lessons.  

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Schedule  

+ Carpentries Mentoring Program: October 23 - January 9, 2017  
+ Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting: September 25th
+ Mentoring Program Info Session: October 2nd   
+ Mentor & Mentee Applications Open: October 2nd   
+ Mentor & Mentee Applications Close: October 16th    
+ Mentoring Groups Matched: October 23rd  
+ Mid-Program Touch Base: November 27th 
+ Mentoring Program Virtual Showcase: January 8th  

For more information, and to sign up for the info session, see the mentorship info [Etherpad](http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentorship-info).
____________________________________________________________________________

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Highlights  

We are offering curriculum-specific mentoring this time around. Both mentors and mentees can choose which tools they are most interested in from the following list:
+ Git  
+ Shell  
+ Python  
+ R  
+ SQL

Once a topic has been picked, participants can choose the type of mentoring they want for their chosen tool:
+ Lesson Maintenance  
  - Contributing to current lesson development  
  - Contributing to lesson maintenance  
+ Teaching Workshops  
  - Developing confidence and skill in teaching  
  - Preparing to teach a specific lesson (i.e. Python)  

We will also offer mentoring that is more general in nature. For those who would like to develop greater skill in community building, either of these mentoring opportunities might suit:
+ Organizing Workshops   
  - Logistics of organizing a workshop (e.g. marketing, registration)  
  - Logistics of running a workshop (e.g. recruiting instructors, distributing tasks)  
+ Community Building  
  - Strategies to build local communities  
  - Tried-and-true events that help foster local communities  

An additional highlight includes the opportunity to participate in in-person mentoring groups. 

During the final week of the mentoring program, we will host a virtual mentoring program showcase. During this event, the community can hear about the projects on which the mentoring groups worked.

Lastly, both mentors and mentees will receive a certificate at the end of the program.

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Outline   

Groups are encouraged to set [SMART](http://www.hr.virginia.edu/uploads/documents/media/Writing_SMART_Goals.pdf) goals to be achieved during the course of the program. The following are sample mentoring program outlines. Groups are free to decide how to spend their time. 

### Sample Mentoring Program Outline: Lesson Maintenance
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Review and discussion lesson objectives.  
+ Meeting with Lesson Maintainers to discuss challenges and opportunities.  
+ Review, discuss, and comment on lesson issues. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.  
+ Review, discuss, and comment on lesson pull requests.  
+ Discuss current challenge questions. Write new challenge questions to be added to the pool of challenge questions.  
+ Submit new challenge questions as pull requests. Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase.  
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

### Sample Mentoring Program Outline: Teaching Workshops
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Review and discuss instructor notes.  
+ “Tag-team” teaching each module of the lesson. Provide feedback to group members.  
+ First mock quarter/half day workshop with group members. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.     
+ Second mock quarter/half day workshop with group members. Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase.  
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

### Sample Mentoring Program Schedule: Organizing Workshops
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Introduce existing workshop resources. Identify challenges for organizers.  
+ Walkthrough of workshop set up using checklists. Discuss workshop planning tools, e.g. Eventbrite, spreadsheets.    
+ Identify potential issues and how to resolve them, e.g. ‘no shows’, CoC violations, refunds. Identify sources of help.  
+ Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.
+ Identify resource gaps, e.g. issues that are not covered by existing checklists and procedures.     
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

### Sample Mentoring Program Schedule: Community Building
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Discuss desired local outcome. Discuss existing community, if any. Identify stakeholders and potential supporters.  
+ Discuss community building methods used elsewhere (e.g. ResBaz, Hacky Hours, MeetUps, communities of practice). 
+ Discuss the use of communication tools such as Slack and Gitter channels.    
+ Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.  
+ Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base. 
+ Draft a plan for a local community building event that includes a marketing strategy.  
+ Review plans collectively. Identify gaps or further resources needed.  
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

## Contact Information
If you have questions about the mentoring program please contact [Belinda Weaver](mailto: bweavercarpentries.org).

Commit message:

Added mentor and mentee application forms

program-outline.md, after:

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Synopsis

The Carpentries want to offer opportunities to help community members learn and grow. Accordingly, mentoring is one professional development opportunity we offer our growing instructor pool. 

The Mentoring Program supports instructors in a variety of ways. Whether you are a new instructor preparing to teach your first workshop, a seasoned instructor hoping to launch workshops in a new community, or an instructor excited about getting involved with lesson development and maintenance, mentoring will help you gain the confidence, technical skills, and teaching skills you need to reach your goal. 

Mentors will guide small groups of no more than five mentees towards a particular outcome the course of the mentoring program. Outcomes might be anything from teaching a specific lesson (i.e. Version Control with Git) to making a meaningful contribution to one of our lessons.  

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Schedule  

+ Carpentries Mentoring Program: October 23 - January 9, 2017  
+ Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting: September 25th
+ Mentoring Program Info Session: October 2nd   
+ Mentor & Mentee Applications Open: October 2nd   
+ Mentor & Mentee Applications Close: October 16th    
+ Mentoring Groups Matched: October 23rd  
+ Mid-Program Touch Base: November 27th 
+ Mentoring Program Virtual Showcase: January 8th  

For more information, and to sign up for the info session, see the mentorship info [Etherpad](http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentorship-info). [Mentor applications](https://goo.gl/forms/SO6qtGmAP7d6sIJL2) are open to instructors who have taught at least two workshops. [Mentee applications](https://goo.gl/forms/oM23ahltliI9t96T2) are open to instructors who have taught less than two workshops.
____________________________________________________________________________

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Highlights  

We are offering curriculum-specific mentoring this time around. Both mentors and mentees can choose which tools they are most interested in from the following list:
+ Git  
+ Shell  
+ Python  
+ R  
+ SQL

Once a topic has been picked, participants can choose the type of mentoring they want for their chosen tool:
+ Lesson Maintenance  
  - Contributing to current lesson development  
  - Contributing to lesson maintenance  
+ Teaching Workshops  
  - Developing confidence and skill in teaching  
  - Preparing to teach a specific lesson (i.e. Python)  

We will also offer mentoring that is more general in nature. For those who would like to develop greater skill in community building, either of these mentoring opportunities might suit:
+ Organizing Workshops   
  - Logistics of organizing a workshop (e.g. marketing, registration)  
  - Logistics of running a workshop (e.g. recruiting instructors, distributing tasks)  
+ Community Building  
  - Strategies to build local communities  
  - Tried-and-true events that help foster local communities  

An additional highlight includes the opportunity to participate in in-person mentoring groups. 

During the final week of the mentoring program, we will host a virtual mentoring program showcase. During this event, the community can hear about the projects on which the mentoring groups worked.

Lastly, both mentors and mentees will receive a certificate at the end of the program.

## Carpentries Mentoring Program Outline   

Groups are encouraged to set [SMART](http://www.hr.virginia.edu/uploads/documents/media/Writing_SMART_Goals.pdf) goals to be achieved during the course of the program. The following are sample mentoring program outlines. Groups are free to decide how to spend their time.

### Sample Mentoring Program Outline: Lesson Maintenance
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Review and discussion lesson objectives.  
+ Meeting with Lesson Maintainers to discuss challenges and opportunities.  
+ Review, discuss, and comment on lesson issues. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.  
+ Review, discuss, and comment on lesson pull requests.  
+ Discuss current challenge questions. Write new challenge questions to be added to the pool of challenge questions.  
+ Submit new challenge questions as pull requests. Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase.  
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

### Sample Mentoring Program Outline: Teaching Workshops
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Review and discuss instructor notes.  
+ “Tag-team” teaching each module of the lesson. Provide feedback to group members.  
+ First mock quarter/half day workshop with group members. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.     
+ Second mock quarter/half day workshop with group members. Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase.  
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

### Sample Mentoring Program Schedule: Organizing Workshops
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Introduce existing workshop resources. Identify challenges for organizers.  
+ Walkthrough of workshop set up using checklists. Discuss workshop planning tools, e.g. Eventbrite, spreadsheets.    
+ Identify potential issues and how to resolve them, e.g. ‘no shows’, CoC violations, refunds. Identify sources of help.  
+ Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.
+ Identify resource gaps, e.g. issues that are not covered by existing checklists and procedures.     
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

### Sample Mentoring Program Schedule: Community Building
+ Introductions, review the Carpentries community culture, and communication channels.  
+ Discuss desired local outcome. Discuss existing community, if any. Identify stakeholders and potential supporters.  
+ Discuss community building methods used elsewhere (e.g. ResBaz, Hacky Hours, MeetUps, communities of practice). 
+ Discuss the use of communication tools such as Slack and Gitter channels.    
+ Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base.  
+ Draft one slide for the mentoring program showcase. Identify a representative to attend the mid-program touch base. 
+ Draft a plan for a local community building event that includes a marketing strategy.  
+ Review plans collectively. Identify gaps or further resources needed.  
+ Finish slide for mentoring program showcase. Attend mentoring program showcase.  

## Contact Information
If you have questions about the mentoring program please contact [Belinda Weaver](mailto: bweavercarpentries.org).
